---
description: Banking and Finance Notes
date: 2020-06-29
---

# Banking and Finance

*All about banking and finance*

## How Banks make money?

Banks makes money by following methods:

1. **Investment Banking**: Most of the income Barclays make is by being an advisor to big corporations, government and individuals.
2. **Corporate Banking**: It provides services for multinationals and large domestic corporate. It charges fee, interests for loans from these companies.
3. By charging **interest** from borrowers.
4. By charging various **fees** on services like,
  a.  Account Fees: For different products in bank, it charges fee for maintenance and services.
  b.  ATM fees: This is charged for ATM usage outside limit and when using other bank’s ATM for services.
  c.  Penalty charges: This can be for late credit card payment or missing a loan EMI.
  d.  Commissions: They provide asset management for which brokers ask for commission.
5. **Merchant Service Charges**: Barclays help merchants accept payments. For this bank charges fee for services. It also helps merchant by data analysis for this as well it charges other fees for value added services.


## Net Interest Margin (NIM)

- (Interest Earned) - (Interest Paid).
- NIM% = NIM / (Avg earning asset), where
- AEA = Average earning asset = (Assets at the beginning of the year + Assets at the end of the year) / 2.
- The difference between the interest income generated by banks  and the amount of interest paid out to their lenders (for example, deposits), relative to the amount of their (interest-earning) assets.

## Retail banking (Consumer Banking)

- Individual consumers can manage their money, take credit, and deposit their money
- Services include checking and savings accounts, mortgages, personal loans, credit cards, FD/RD.

## Income TAX

- Form 26as has information on FD interest


## Credit Risk Management

Credit risk management is the practice of mitigating losses by understanding the adequacy of a bank's capital and loan loss reserves at any given time – a process that has long been a challenge for financial institutions.
